- IAM Users
- IAM Groups
	- "Are like the departments at a university."
	- We can attach permissions to the group and then all users under this group will receive/inherit these permissions.
	- Groups cannot contain other groups.
- IAM Policies
	- "The rulebook that define exactly what actions are allowed. Anything not mentioned is implicitly denied".
	- Generally written in JSON, specifies the "who" (Principal), "what  (Action)"on what" (Resource), and "what conditions (optional)".
	- Types of policies:
		- AWS Managed:
			- AWS pre-defined rules.
		- Inline:
			- Policies embedded into a single user, group, or role.
		- Identity Based:
			- Directly assigned policies to users, groups, or roles.
		- Customer Managed:
			- Policies that you create.
- IAM Best Practices:
	- NEVER use the root user.
	- Apply the principal of least privilege.
	- User IAM groups.
	- Enable MFA for all, especially for users with elevated privileges.
	- Use strong password policies.
	- Regularly review permissions ensuring they are up to date.
	- Understand policy evaluation logic.
		- Explicit denies will always override an allow.
- AWS Organizations: Big hierarchy that sets rules, budgets, and maintains consistency. For the ultra scale (UC systems, UMD systems, etc).
	- Amazon will give you big kickbacks if you use their Organizations method.


- EC2:
	- An EC2 instance is a VM.
		- On-demand availability, whenever you want.
		- Scalable.
		- Flexible, you can configure OS and hardware.
		- Full admin access to the instance.
	- There are different types of EC2 Instances:
		- On Demand Instances
			- Highest per hour cost. 
		- Reserved Instances
			- Significantly discounted, 75% distance compared to On-Demand. Good for long-term workloads with steady schedules.
		- Spot Instances
			- 90% discount, available when there is space on AWS's servers.
			- Can be interrupted with a 2 minute warning.
	- AMI (Amazon Machine Image):
		- Prepackaged EC2 configurations that can help with quick deployment requirements.
		- There are standard public AMIs and then vendor based. Finally you can also create custom AMIs.
	- 