- EC2 Purpose Types:
	1. General Purpose
		- Wide range of tasks and workloads. Good for web servers or small developer environments.
	2. Compute Optimized
		- CPU intensive tasks such as batch processing or scientific modelling.
	3. Memory Optimized
		- For tasks with large datasets, allowing them to be all loaded into memory.
	4. Storage Optimized
		- For tasks with massive datasets that can be accessed through local storage.
- EC2 Security Groups
	- A gate that controls the type of traffic allowed in and out of the EC2 instance per region.
		- Allows IP and security group configurations.
	- Port numbers:
		- 22: Secure shell and SFTP for SSH file transfers.
		- 21: Dedicated for file transfers, FTP.
		- 80: HTTP for unsecured websites.
		- 443: HTTPS for secured websites.
		- 3389: RDP specifically for windows instances.

- Elastic Load Balancing
	- In two or more instances, AWS can manage traffic and algorithmically distribute data to specific instances.
		- They leverage Elastic Load Balancers forwards incoming traffic to multiple EC2 instances while only exposing a single point of access (one DNS).
	- Allows:
		- Regular health checks on instances. Will just not send traffic to the unhealthy instances.
		- End to end SSL (HTTPS) connection for sites.
		- High Availability across different zones within a region.
		- Fully-managed by AWS so we do not have to manage anything.
	- 3 Types of Load Balancers:
		- Application: Based on layer 7 routing for static DNS (HCI-layer).
		- Network: Based on layer 4, the transport layer with TCP and UDP protocols.
		- Gateway: Layer 3, the network layer that decides the physical path the data takes. Routes traffic to firewalls that we manage on our EC2 instances.
- Auto scalers:
	- Load Balancers distribute traffic amongst existing instances.
	- Auto scalers increase the number of EC2 instances (servers) when traffic is congested even with Load Balancers.
		- Achieves through these 4 dynamic scaling formats:
			1. Simple/Step scaling: the simplest case, if an instance's CPU reaches over x%, add another instance.
			2. Target Tracking Scaling: adds/removes instances to achieve a goal average CPU usage % within the group.
			3. Scheduled Scaling: predetermined scaling plans based on existing usage patterns. Can also be manually scheduled.
			4. Predictive Scaling: uses real-time existing usage data to have ML determine resources ahead of time and automatically provision resources, useful for predictable usage patterns.
	- Scales up and down automatically. We can set minimum and maximum servers that the auto scaler can scale to.
	- Can also replace unhealthy instances with new instances through its own health checks.

- AWS Lambda:
	- Serverless option.
		- Doesn't mean there are no servers, it just means developers don't have to manage the servers. We let the providers manage them.
	- Advantages:
		- Virtual servers with no overhead to manage.
		- Running on-demand saves costs and scaling is automated on usage.
		- Relatively inexpensive: based on pay per request and compute time.
		- Event-Driven: functions are invoked by AWS when needed so it is reactive (lambda servers boot up when functions are called).