- EC2 Instance Storage
	- Elastic Block Store
		- Network drive you can attach to EC2 instances.
		- Pay for GB of volume storage per month.
		- Data persists beyond instance termination.
		- Can be detached and reattached to new instances.
		- Can periodically backup into archive.
	- Instance Store
		- Data is deleted with instance termination.
		- More powerful and faster than EBS.
		- Think of as "Cache".
- Elastic File Storage
	- A shared network file system that can be mounted on many instances. Works across multiple availability zones.
	- Good alternative to EBS since EBS is not cross-availability zone.
	- Amazon FSx:
		- Derivative of EFS, predominantly for Windows.
		- FSx for Lustre:
			- Fully-managed meant for HPC use cases.
- Amazon S3:
	- Allows people to store objects into "buckets".
	- Storage classes:
		- S3 Standard: used for frequently accessed data with low latency.
		- S3 Infrequent Access: To store data that is less frequently used. Lower cost.
		- S3 One Zone IA: High durability in one AZ but data lost when AZ is destroyed. Good as a backup.
		- S3 Standard IA: Similar to Standard, but as a backup accessible across multiple AZ.
		- S3 Glacier: Low-cost object storage meant for archiving/backup.
			- Instant Retrieval: 90 day storage minimum.
			- Flexible: 90 day storage minimum (slower).
			- Deep Archive: 180 day storage minimum.
	- Has intelligent tiering that optimizes your cost through automatic tier switching.
	- Express One Zone: high performance, single AZ storage class with objects stored in a Directory Bucket. Purpose is to locate storage and compute in one area, reducing latency.
	- S3 Security:
		- Policies:
			- IAM Policies and Bucket Policies
		- Encryption:
			- Server-side and client-side.
	- Replication and Storage Gateway:
		- Buckets can be in different AWS accounts and copying is asynchronous.
			- Must enable versioning in source and destination buckets, needs proper IAM perms as well.
			- CRR (Cross-Region Replication) used for compliance, lower latency access, replication across accounts.
			- SRR (Same-Region Replication) used for log aggregation, live replication between production and test accounts.
		- AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid storage service to allow on-premises infrastructure to seamlessly use the AWS Cloud.
			- AWS Snowball is a service that migrates your S3 buckets into the AWS Cloud which is literally using trucks to haul your servers and copy-pasting them into the cloud servers. Your servers are accessible during transport.