Networking
- IP Addresses in AWS
	- Usually IPv4, also has IPv6.
		- IPv6 is free to use.
	- Elastic IP allows you to attach a fixed public IPv4 to an EC2 instance.
	- All public IPv4 on AWS costs $0.005 per hour.

- Amazon VPC
	- Personal private network that the user controls.
		- "Customizable networking solution surrounding your cloud infrastructure"
	- VPC Subnets:
		- Network partitioning inside your VPC.
		- One-to-one ratio between AZ and subnets.
		- Public subnet is accessible from the internet.
		- Private subnets are not.
		- Directing data from the internet to between subnets require Route Tables.

- Amazon NACL
	- Firewall attached at subnet level which controls traffic from and to subnet.
	- Has ALLOW and DENY rules, can attach priorities.
		- Rules only include IP address.

- Security Group
	- Firewall attached at the instance level, controls traffic to and from an EC2 instance.
	- Meant for individual resources.
	- Only has ALLOW rules.

- VPC NAT Gateway
	- "Network Access Translation".
	- Allows instances in private subnets to access the internet while remaining private.
	- NAT Gateway:
		- Fully managed by AWS, auto-scaling, highly available.
		- Not very customizable. "Out of box" solution by AWS.
	- NAT Instance:
		- Requires manual management with OS, patches, software, scaling.
		- But comes with high customizability.

- Amazon Route 53
	- Fully managed DNS service part of AWS Global Architecture
	- Routing policies:
		- Simple Routing - no health checks.
		- Latency Routing - routes users to geographically closest servers to reduce latency.
		- Weighted Routing - distributes traffics across multiple EC2s with respect to proportions you specify.
		- Failover Routing - health check on primary instance and redirect if fail.

- VPC Peering
	- Connects two VPCs using private AWS networks.
	- These VPCs must not have overlapping IP address ranges.

- Direct Connect (DX)
	- Physical, safe private connection between on-site and AWS.