# Orientalism
- According to Edward Said, the Oriental was a myth, which over the course of two centuries of European thought came to be a systematic knowledge about the East.
	- Can be traced back to Marco Polo, where his interpretations and experiences of his travels (especially in China) became the roots of Western perception of the East.
- "Orientalism as a Western style of dominating, restructuring and having authority over the Orient".
- Orientalism as a discourse (Power-discourse-knowledge-power).
- "Orientalism was ultimately a political vision of reality whose structure promoted the difference between the familiar (European, the West, us) and the stranger (the Orient, the East, them)"
- European conception of Asia and Asians, "the Other", as "almost a European invention." According to Edward Said, Europeans understood Asia as a place of "romance, exotic beings, haunting memories and landscapes, remarkable experiences".

## Orientalism and Asian Americans
- Orientalism: binary between us vs them (civilized vs uncivilized).
- The main reason for coining the term Asian American by the activists in 1960s.
- Orientalism as a discourse that focuses on tissues of racist/stereotypical representation
	- Denial of Asian American assimilation or hybridity and casting them as "forever foreigners" indelibly marked with their racial origins elsewhere.

## Yellowface
- "Oriental body": Exaggeration of "racial" features that have been designated "Oriental", such as "slanted" eyes, overbite, and mustard-yellow skin color.

### The notion of pollution
- Analogy of soil.
- Lee, "Yellowface marks the Oriental as indelibly alien. Constructed as a race of aliens, Orientals represent a present danger of pollution. AN analysis of the Oriental as a racial category must begin with the concept of the alien as a polluting body".
- Aliens are always a source of pollution as they remain outside the internal structure of a cultural formation.
- Lee, "Not all **foreign** objects, however, are **aliens**, only objects or persons whose presence disrupts the narrative structure of the community are liens. When the foreign is present, it becomes alien. The alien is always out of place, therefore disturbing and dangerous".

## Court Cases:
#### *United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind*, 261 U.S. 204
- A case in which the United States Supreme Court decided that *Bhagat Singh Thind*, who as a high caste Punjabi, settled in Oregon, could not be a naturalized citizen of the United States, despite the fact that a proportion of anthropologists had defined a proportion of people in India as part of the Caucasian race. The ruling followed a decision in Takao Ozawa v. United States, where the same court had ruled that a light-skinned native of Japan could not be counted as "white", because "white" meant "Caucasian". In *Bhagat Singh Thind*, the court seemed to contradict itself, ruling that Thind was not a "white person" as used in "common speech, to be interpreted in accordance with the understanding of the common man.".


1. How does the idea of alien versus foreign continue to perpetuate the narrative of the model minority amongst Asian Americans?
	1. The word alien is a more discriminatory descriptor of someone who is not a citizen. Both alien and foreigner are contradictory the :model minority" label but alien is a harsh descriptor that refutes the ideas of "model minority".
2. According to Robert G Lee, what is the primary function of the "yellowface" portrayal in popular media?
	1. To be antagonistic and racist against Asians and Asian Americans. With respect to the first family of the Clinton-Gore administration, yellowface was used to show that the first family, historically thought of as white, was being polluted and transformed into the "first yellow family".