# Invisibility in American History
- Ellis Island: Democracy, equality, and liberty form the core of that creed, and the "mighty woman with a torch" has come to symbolize those ideals to, in the words of the poet Emma Lazarus, the tired, the poor, the huddled masses 'Yearning to breathe free'".
- Angel Island: the main port of entry for Chinese immigrants "yearning to breathe free" from 1910 to 1940. Here, the migrants were carefully screened by U.S. Immigration officials and held for days, weeks, or months to determine their fitness for America.
	- Nearly 100,000 Asian immigrants spent some time on the island.
	- Two mess halls: one for Asian men and nicer one for Europeans and Asian women.

## Is America a nation of immigrants, a refuge for the "tired, the poor, the huddled masses 'yearning to breathe free'"?
- Asian immigrants were barred from building their communities, as women were not allowed to come as wives unlike European immigrants, in order to prevent them from developing Asian American families.
- A traditional vision of America as a "homogeneous" nation: "Americans, John Jay wrote in the *Federalist* papers, were "one united people - a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs." (Takaki, *A different Mirror*, p. 4)
- Benjamin Franklin: "Wished there were more white Europeans in America... why should we 'darken the people of America."
- The Naturalization Act of 1790.

## The major problems with American history
- Narrow view of American identity reinforced by a narrow view of American history because many existing history books give Asian Americans only passing notice or overlook them all together.
- Asian Americans were treated as guests in someone's house.
- The reasons for many Asian immigrants becoming shopkeepers, merchants, and businessmen.
- The Cable Act (1922): Any woman who married "an alien ineligible for citizenship shall cease to be citizen of the US.".
- Executive Action 9066: citizenship did not protect Japanese Americans' rights and liberties guaranteed by the constitution.
- The need to re-envision history that include Asians in the history of America.


1. According to Takaki, why should we 're-envision/rewrite the history of America that includes the stories of Asian Americans?'
	- Takaki states that Asian Americans are woefully underrepresented in the history books of America. Asian Americans are often just a passing mention that does not do their suffering, injustices, prejudice, and wide societal contributions properly. The struggles of Asian Americans should be more widely known and taught about in American literature. 
2. Why were/are Asian Americans considered strangers/outsiders (foreigners)? How does this challenge the narrative that the US is a post-racial society?
	- Asian Americans were considered strangers due to their unrelation to European roots. The whole of America was primarily white with the first immigrants having European roots. Asian came in a latter immigration and became immediately ostracized for having a different complexion than the established races in America. The ideal of the racial classification "Oriental" is now deeply rooted within popular culture counters the idea that the US is a post-racial society.