# Early Asian Indian Immigrant Experience
- Indian immigration to the U.S. began in 1900.
- Early immigrants were mostly Sikhs, the martial class from the rural areas of Punjab who arrived as single males or married men without their wives and children.
  Unlike Chinese and Japanese, Indian immigrants did not come as contract laborers, but the reason was the same: economic opportunities and freedom.
## Context for immigration
- Economic hardship at home created by the British Imperialism (high taxes, loss of property, etc).
- When the Punjabis experienced insurmountable hardship, they started finding alternative jobs.
	- Migrant workers
	- Employment in British colonial army and police force.
	- Heard rosy pictures of Canada and the United States from the Chinese returnees while stationed in Hong Kong and Singapore.
- Many Sikhs had already been to Canada as it was a commonwealth of British Empire.
- Indians occupied a unique place in the US since their experiences were shaped by the U.S.'s relationship with Great Britain.
- Hindus were subjected to the same prevalent anti-Oriental bias of the Pacific coast states.
- Different anti-Asian policies, encouraged by the British government, targeted the Indian immigrants.
# Prejudice, Racism, and Anti-Indian Sentiments
- They were all labeled as "Hindu" which was a popular term in the US at the turn of the century assigned to all Indian immigrants for the purpose of exclusion and discrimination.
- Interestingly, although Indian immigrants were very small in number, in contrast to the Chinese and Japanese immigrants, their Asian origin alone engendered fear for a "Hindu invasion".
- The 1909 Immigration Commission Investigation of the East Indians stated: "The Hindus are regarded as the least desirable, or better, the most undesirable of all the eastern Asiatic races which have come to share our soil The assimilative qualities of the East Indians appear to be the lowest of those of any race in the West."
# Citizenship and court cases
- The Naturalization and Citizenship Act of 1970 and 1875.
- The 1910 *US v. Balsara* and the 1913 *Akhoy Jumar Mazumdar* decisions held that Indians were Caucasians and thus entitled under the naturalization legislation of 1790 and 1875 to be considered "white persons" eligible for citizenship.
- The first case of rejection of Indian immigrant's application for citizenship was in 1907 in California. Veer Sing, a Sikh applied for a citizenship at the County Clerk's Office, California. He could have become citizen because at that time Indians were considered whites, but he refused to remove his turban, in accordance with Sikh religious principles while he was being sworn.
- *Takao Ozawa v. US*, 1922. "white person" was synonymous with Caucasian and Japanese was not Caucasian.
- *US v Bhagat Singh Thind*, 1923. Asians were ineligible for naturalized citizenship.

activity:
- *Indian immigrants work on railway construction, 1906*: It is often said that America's railway infrastructure was built by East Asians and Mexicans. This is the first time I've seen Indian immigrants work on the railway but it would make sense that some of them ended up on the railway since the timelines of their immigration and railway construction matches up.
- *A.K. Mozumdar and Vitvan, Seminar Cruise, 1922*: Mozumdar was an Indian American spiritual writer and teacher trained in Hindu spirituality. The picture was taken with Vitvan (Ralph Moriarity de Bit), his disciple and is symbolic of their work in teaching "New Age" spirituality which can be likened to a synthesis of Shaktism, astrology, Protestant Christianity, and science. Vitvan went on and founded "The School of Natural Order".