# Japanese Americans and their Experiences
- The Japanese immigrated in large numbers to Hawaii, and they did not come in large numbers to the United states until the 1900s.
- Demand of labor after the Chinese exclusion.
- An influx of more than 38000 Japanese workers from Hawaii arrived in the U.S. mainland between 1902 and 1907 for better economic opportunities than in Hawaii.
- Soon the Japanese became very successful, but their success drew white workers' attentions, initiating a political campaign for Japanese exclusion.
# Social/family structure
- Early Japanese communities differ from Chinese communities in terms of family development because there were more women in the Japanese communities than in the Chinese communities.
	- There was greater immigration of women from Japan because the government encourage the immigration of families.
	- Page law of 1875 and the Gentlemen's agreement of 1907.
- From 1908-1920, twenty thousand Japanese "picture brides" travelled to Hawaii and to the continental US to join the men whom they were promised.
# The Munson Report - Quick Summary
- Issei:
	- First gen.
	- Romantically loyal to Japan.
	- Made America their home.
	- 55-65 years old.
- Nisei
	- Second gen.
	- Education in the US.
	- Americanized.
	- "Pathetically eager" to be accepted as Americans.
	- 1-30 years old.
- Kibei:
	- Second gen but received part/all of their education in Japan.
	- Considered dangerous and closer to Issei.
	- But mostly returned back to US and more loyal to US since they were foreigners in Japan.
- Sansei:
	- Third gen.
# Internment during WWII
- Following the onset of WWII and the attack on Pearl Harbor, Japanese immigrants and second-gen Japanese Americans were targeted.
- American laborers greatly supported internment.
# Resentment for Japanese People in the US
- Did not remain laborer forever, many turned to agriculture.
- Japanese farmers were wildly successful.
	- Ex: Kinji "George" Ushijima, aka the Potato King. By 1910, produced half a million dollars worth.
# Internment of Japanese Americans during WWII
- Most Japanese Americans felt the need to prove their "Americanness" so they joined the military.
- "Over the course of the war, the 442d became one of the most decorated combat units".
# Civil Liberties
- Basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed.
	- The right to free speech.
	- The right to privacy.
	- The right to remain silent in a police interrogation.
	- The right to be free from unreasonable searches of your home.
	- The right to a fair court trial.
	- The right to marry.
	- The right to vote.

1. Yes it was absolutely a violation. Most Americans supported internment because of their racist views, the fact that the "Japanese were taking their jobs", and bombings of Pearl Harbor/the idea of an insider threat.
2. Book banning is a wrongful and unnecessary practice since they are meant to educate and open up different worlds. Additionally, the typical book banning is preventing teachers from teaching it in schools, not that they are banned from libraries. In either form, I believe book banning is wrong especially in an educational context.