## Early Chinese immigrants and their experience
- First wave of Chinese immigration: Mid-19th Century.
- Sojourners
- Chinese immigrants came to the United States in search of a better life and livelihood in mid-nineteenth century.
- More than 300,000 Chinese entered the United States in the nineteenth century,
- Push and pull factors: The Chinese were pushed out by powerful forces at home (flooding, civil war, famine) as well as attracted by the discovery of gold in California and he jobs that became available as the American West developed.
- Confucius teaching: young adult should stay close to family/home to take care of their family (but here they go away to support the family).
## Common means through which the early Chinese immigrants financed their passage to America
- Few could afford the overseas journeys.
- contract laborers: chinese immigrants signed labor aggreements to work a particular number of years in exchange for wages and passages.
- credit ticket system: Broker would loan money to a migrant for the ticket for passage, with the migrant agreeing to pay off the loan plus interest from earned wages.
- Some immigrants borrowed money from friends or relations.
## First Chinese immigrants were labor workers:
- Transcontinental Railroad.
- Gold Mines
- Agriculture
- Military
- Fisheries
## Experiences
- Chinese workers were "pitted against and used to discipline" white workers during the 1800s.
- Chinese workers were used to defuse the labor movement because they were willing to work more hours for low wages. The consequence was increase in prejudice/animosity toward Chinese, especially on part of white laborers.
## Anti Chinese Laws
- 1850: Foreign minor tax: $20/month from all foreign miners.
- People v. Hall (1854): Chinese could not testify against white people in court.
- The 1875 Page Act: Restricted Chinese women coming to the US "for lewd or immoral purposes".
- The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882: suspended the entry of Chinese for 10 years; renewed in 1892 for another ten years; renewed again in 1902 to suspend the entry of the Chinese for an indefinite period.
	- Justifications: Economic threat, "Inferior race" "coolies" engaged in a new system of slavery.
	- "moral and racial pollution", "gender sexual thread".
## Major factors leading to anti-Chinese sentiments
- The question of whether Chinese immigrants should be welcomed or expelled.
- On the one hand, the Chinese were praised by industrialists as an ample source of cheap labor to developing the American west (railroad, lumber, fishing, mining, agricultural industries); on the other hand, they represented unfair economic competition.
- The Chinese were also believed to be too foreign and unassimilable; a threat to economy and society (women and race, particularly because of the mostly male population that was accused of bringing "all the vices" to the US, such as drugs, prostitution, and gang activity).
- They were perceived as "Oriental invasion" by Californians.
## Major factors leading to anti-Chinese sentiments
- Moral and racial pollution:
	- argument around he sexual danger that both Chinese women and men allegedly posed to the country and its citizens.
	- Chinese female prostitutes' interracial liaisons.
	- Chinese men's allegedly luring of "pure and innocent white women into their dens of vice and depravity."
	- Chinese men undermining acceptable gender roles in America by taking traditionally women jobs (laundromats).

#### In-class activity:
1. Despite their contributions to build the American West, why were the Chinese not seen as pioneers? What are the larger implications of this invisibility?
	- They weren't seen as pioneers since many of them were brought over to the US under contract. Further, many of them did not plan to stay as citizens, but rather considered the US to be a temporary chapter to earn money, then return to China. This invisibility implicates the fact that the Chinese and other Asians under similar circumstances were largely ignored in history since they were mainly temporary contract laborers.
2. As Lee discusses in the book chapter, why did the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 become watershed moment that shaped American immigration policies for generations? How does the Chinese exclusion act help us understand the previous administration's "travel ban" (that banned immigration from Muslim-majority countries" and what scholars and human rights activities called "Muslim ban")?
	- The Chinese Exclusion act set up the precedent that nations are supposed to protect themselves and their citizens from harm. Whether that is physical or social harm, the Chinese fell under that umbrella. The Muslim ban was also under the same assumption, where their immigration was banned under the premises of ensuring national security.