# Korean Experience
## Immigration
- 1903 to 1905, about 7400 Koreans went to work on Hawaii's sugar plantation as contract laborers.
- 1905-1924: 600 political refugees and 1000 picture brides immigrated to the US.
- There were less than 10,000 Koreans in the US prior to 1940s.
- Beginning in 1953, Korean wives of U.S. servicemen began immigration in significant numbers. Military bride emigration peaked at an average of 4000 per year during the 1970s and 1980s.
- By the time Korean immigrants arrived in the US, anti-Asian sentiments and racism were ubiquitous, and they also experienced the similar racial discrimination and ethnic antagonism as other Asian ethnic groups.
- "Stateless people and despised "Oriental".
- Heavily involved in nationalist movements.
- The Japanese banned Korean immigration:
	- To prevent Koreans from competing with Japanese laborers already in Hawaii.
	- To keep an ample supply of Koreans at home to support Japanese expansionist projects.
- Diverse occupational backgrounds: scholars, former soldiers, students, clergymen, farmers, and laborers
	- About 80% literate and 40% Christians (converted by American missionaries).
- Harsh life in Hawaii plantations.
## The Role of the Church in Korean American Communities
- High level of attendance.
## Korean Women Roles in Nationalist Movement
- Korean women in Hawaii knew from firsthand experience the terror of Japanese colonial rule, in many cases more than their husbands who had left Korea before the Japanese annexation.
- They infuse family lives with Korean language, customs, and culture while also helping to form Korean American ethnic identities as well.
- They spearheaded nationalist activities through Korean churches.
- They organized their own separate women's organizations to support Korean independence by raising funds and spreading the nationalist message.