# Filipinos and the U.S.

## Invisibility of Filipino American
- Filipino Americans are known as the "Forgotten Asian Americans" despite being active actors in Asian America.
	- The Philippines-American war (lasted for 15 years and it is estimated that about 1.4 million Filipinos were killed, yet the war is forgotten and unacknowledged.)
	- Filipinos were the first Asians to come to the US (they were brought by the Spanish as slaves and laborers in 1500).
	- Great Filipino activists in the farmworkers movement but overshadowed by Cesar Chavez.
	- Fought for the US in WWII.
	- Great contributors to America's rise as a global power.
	- Huge Filipino America: third largest Asian population, US Census 2020.
## Context for Filipino Immigration
- 1898: Acquired the Philippines Islands, along with Puerto Rico and Guam, as a result of its victory in the Spanish-American War in 1898.
- Expansionism vs anti-imperialism
- Major debate on whether the Philippines should become a permanent American colony.
	- Anti-imperialists:
		- American control of the Philippines violated the principles of the Declaration of Independence.
	- Expansionists:
		- Economics, political interests
		- United States had a moral duty to govern the Philippines and elevate her people to "Civilized" democratic standards (White Man's Burden).
## Colonization
- U.S. Senate decides in favor of the imperialists
	- The Philippines becomes a U.S. Territory
	- President McKinley: "The Philippines are outs not to exploit, but to develop, to civilize, to educate, to train in the science of self-government." "We come not as invaders or conquerors," President McKinley said, "but as friends, to protect the natives in their homes, in their employments, ..."
### It's Impacts on Native or Colonized People
- Colonialism: the formal political domination of one country by another in which the relationship between the two nations is always one of economic exploitation.
- Two types of colonies: Settler colonies and colonies procured for the enrichment of the mother country, especially the exploitation of natural resources and labor.
- The U.S. establishes a military government
	- The objectives of the Military government: to establish peace and order, and to prepare Philippines for civil government.
- The Pensionados 1903-1910:
	- Chosen, Financed, and sponsored by U.S.
	- In return for each year of education int eh US, pensionados were required to work for the government in the Philippines for the same length of time.
- The 1924 Immigration Act
	- Restriction on Asian Immigration except for Filipinos.
## The Social Maladjustment of a "Womanless Group"
- Christians, went to school and spoke English, westernized in style, and familiar with American Popular Culture.
- Nevertheless, they were associated with blacks.
- The taxi dance hall was associated with Filipinos.
## "Filipino Problem"
- Filipinos: The "US national" but they occupied a liminal status that was neither citizen nor alien.
- The fear of nationalist and anti-imperialist: that the Philippines would introduce another "Race problem" into American society.
## Decolonization and Exclusion
- In order to overcome the "Filipino problem" the movement for Philippines independence began.
- The Tydings-McDuffie Act (Philippine Independence Act) was signed into law by FDR on March 24, 1934. It granted the Philippines commonwealth status and a promise of independence after ten years.
- The Repatriation Act of July 10, 1935 was described as a "Big brotherly gesture of help and assistance" but it was another method of removing "undesirable immigrants" from the country.
- 