# Ah Yup 1878
- The questions are: 
	1. Is a person of the Mongolian race a "white person" within the meaning of the statute? 
	2. Do these provisions exclude all but white persons and persons of African nativity or African descent? Words in a statute, other than technical terms, should be taken in their ordinary sense... As ordinarily used everywhere in the United States, one would scarcely fail to understand that the party employing the words "white person" would intend a person of the Caucasian race."
# The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882
- The Chinese became the first immigrant group to be excluded based on their race and class.
- Suspended the entry of Chinese laborers for 10 years.
- Renewed in 1892 for another 10 years.
- Renewed again in 1902 to indefinitely suspend Chinese immigrants.
# "A Statue for Our Harbor"
- A statue of a grotesque Chinese male coolie in SF Bay mocking NY's Statue of Liberty.
- Captured all of white California's fears about Chinese immigration.
- Chinese male in the statue: in ragged robes, rat tail hair, squinted eyes.
# Johnson-Reed Immigration Act of 1924
- Restrictive immigration policies and acts like the JR Immigration Act were deeply implicated in the development of 20th century American ideas and practices about citizenship, race, and the nation-state.
- The National origins quota system ("SEC. 11. (a) The annual quota of any nationality shall be 2 percent of the number of foreign-born individuals of such nationality resident in continental United States as determined by the United States census of 1890, but the minimum quota of any nationality shall be 100.")
	- Notice the 1890 census.
## Reconstruction of Race in Immigration Law in the JR Immigration Act
- Excluded from immigration all persons ineligible to citizenship, no numerical restrictions on immigration from countries of the Western Hemisphere.
- Hierarchies of race and nationality in this immigration law.
- On the West Coast, nativists groups targeted the"new" waves of southern and eastern European immigrants. Although they were considered white and thus eligible for citizenship, they were considered racially inferior. Their presence was blamed for social problems such as prostitution, crime, and labor problems.
- Highly influenced by nativism.
## How did the Act Reimagine the Nation Racially and Spatially?
- RestrictionL A few people entered, and generated illegal immigration.
- More than 5.5 million Mexicans came to the US; as a result the US Border Patrol was created in Feb. 27, 1925 in order to control the immigration along the US-Mexican border.
- Visa requirements and border-control policies made Mexicans the single largest group of illegal aliens by the late 1920s.
- 
