# "Becoming White"
- The label of "white" appears to be arbitrary and has more to do with privilege than biology.
- With EEO programs, Asian-origin Americans and European-origin Americans are classified together.
	- Neither are considered underrepresented.
- Many Asian Americans have attained career and financial success, equated with being white, moved to white areas, and married white spouses.
- Despite heavy acculturation, Asian Americans still remain culturally distinct and "suspect" to white Americans.
## Model Minority Myth
- A political tool of suppression.
	- Emerged during the Civil Rights Movement
	- Focused on emphasizing division between racial groups.
- A self-fulfilling stereotype.
	- Generational feedback loop.
	- Restrictive ideology.
## Asian Americans: Origins
- The term was coined by late historian and activist Yuji Ichioka during ethnic conscious movements in the late 1960s.
- Originally adopted to reject the Western label "Oriental".
- Today it is used as an umbrella term that encompasses all Asian-origin US citizens and immigrants with descent from Asia, east of Pakistan.
## Second-gen "Limbo
- Many children of Asian-origin have lived their whole lives in suburban communities.
- By the second generation, most Asian-origin children have lost fluency in their home language.
- Few Americans of Asian descent identify themselves as "Asian" or "Asian American".
- Typically, recent immigrants are less likely to identify as "Asian American" than those born or raised in the US.

# Professor Lecture
## The Politics of the Model Minority Thesis
- "What's wrong with being a model minority?," asked a black student in a class I taught on race. "I'd rather be in the model minority than in the downtrodden minority that nobody respects"
- "You have a 90 percent chance of getting a decent job with an engineering degree, what chance would you have of earning income as a writer?".
- Model-minority discourse is less an error than an instrument: it disciplines Asian Americans toward majoritarian ends and fractures solidarities with Black, Indigenous, and other racialized peoples.
- Harvard complaint:
	- "The anti-affirmative action complaint mobilizes model-minority metrics, pits Asians against other racialized groups, and elides legacy/wealth preferences - revealing Asian American complicity within racial governance under racial capitalism."
	- "This is model minority discourse deployed in ways that benefit white supremacy but also specifically assert Asian superiority. Notably, the complaint does not address 'legacy admissions,' which... increases the odds of admission for legacy applicants threefold and clearly favors the white racial dominance of student bodies at 'elite' colleges and universities."
## Asian Americans and "White"
- Most Asian Americans accept white as mainstream, average, and normal, something to aspire to.

| Asian American                                                           | White                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| Coined by Yuji Ichioka to reject the "Oriental" label in the late 1960s. | An arbitrary label.                     |
| Umbrella term for diverse groups.                                        | More to do with privilege than biology. |
## Consequences of the Foreigner Stereotype
- Gives an impression that Asian Americans don't belong and aren't entitled to the same rights.
- Asian Americans are not distinguished from Asians. Consequently relations with Asia affect how Asian Americans are treated.
- Loyalties of Asian Americans questioned.