# Francisco Student Strikes and Protest (Student Presentation)
- The strike was both a political awakening and ideological revolution for all groups involved.
- Highlighted how education was under the control of the government, which minimized the stories told and knowledge of marginalized groups, especially Asian Americans.
- Redefined education and spawned the creation of many courses related to cultural identities.
- The strike provided community empowerment.

# The San Francisco State Strike
- The San Francisco State Strike was a 5-month battle between student activists of the Third World Liberation Front and local educational and societal leaders, demanding more elegant and accessible education. "The San Francisco State strike was a microcosm of this struggle over cultural hegemony. The focus of the strike wa a redefinition of education, which in turn was linked to a larger redefinition of American society."
	- It was a direct confrontation with the dominant power structures that shape society's values, knowledge, and institutions.
- Frantz Fanon argued that liberation involves a psychological transformation - reclaiming identity, rejecting imposed inferiority, and confronting power structures.
# TWLF
- Impacted the ideological development of Asian American students by emphasizing the commonalities of "people of color".
- Demanded open admissions and an expanded admissions program for disadvantaged students.
- Challenged the purpose of education by demanding a School of Ethnic Studies.
# Impacts of the Strike on Asian Americans
- "I don't think I would have gone to law school if it hadn't been for the strike.... The reason why I did go to law school was to get some skills... to practice law, and look at law as a vehicle for social change".
- The activism and struggles profoundly changed Asian American communities, created an extensive network of student organizations and Asian American studies classes, produced new generation of writers, poets, an artists, and most importantly these struggles deeply affected Asian American consciousness.
- They redefined racial and ethnic identity, promoted new ways of thinking about communities, the strike also critically transformed the consciousness of its participants.
	- Umemote recounts how many Asian American students initially sought to assimilate (marrying white partners, idealizing whiteness), but through the strike reclaimed their cultural identity and political voice.
# The Birth of the Term "Asian American"
- The term "Asian American" came into existence during the 1960s to label peoples of Asian descent to whom the racist and discriminatory term "oriental" had been applied.
- Although "Asian American" was a cultural designation in its historical facts and the movement's origin, the term remains rooted in racial ethnology.
# Asian American Studies
- Asian American studies, an interdisciplinary field of academic study, emerged from social movements of the 1960s.
- According to the Association for Asian American Studies (AAAS), "Asian American Studies examines, through multidisciplinary lenses, the experiences of Asians in the United States. It is a field of study, creative and critical, interpretive and analytical, grounded in experience and theory... Its subject matter is the diverse peoples from Asia - from West to East Asia, South to Southeast - who lived and worked in the United States."

# Video
- The AFT went onto strike for campus negotiations.
- Once the workers became involved they started to understand the struggles and reasoning for strikes.