# Cold War and its Influence on Asian Americans

## What is the Model Minority?
- (Lee, p. 256): Frank Chin writes in 1974, "Whites love us because we're not black".
- In simple terms, the model minority refers to the images of Asian Americans as a most successful group that has excelled educationally and economically through their hard work and self-reliance. They are assumed to be docile and submissive, obedient and uncomplaining, and living the American dream without reliance on government welfare and assistance.
## Key Socio-political Moments leading to the Construction of the Model Minority Myth
- Cold War Context and Racial Politics
- During the Cold War, the US needed to portray itself as a liberal democracy for global credibility to counter glob al communism.
- This myth aligned with the liberal ideology of ethnic assimilation.
### The Politics and Ideological Function Behind the Construction of the MM Myth
- The unscrupulous Asian American subjects were transformed into good subjects to contrast them with African Americans who were characterized, in contrast, as lazy and troublemakers -- a tool for containing Black protest and promoting U.S. liberal democracy globally.
- Pitting Asian Americans against African Americans and other minority groups in racial terms creates prejudice and hatred against Asian Americans.
- "The Watts riot in the summer of 1964 and the growing demands of African Americans for economic equity as well as formal political rights, along with the gradual dismantling of Jim Crow segregation in the South, plunged racial policy into crisis. The contours of the crisis can be seen in the conflicting responses of the Johnson Administration to black demands for racial equality..."
## Some of the contradictions/problems of the model minority framework
- Past stereotypes of Asian Americans: opium smokers and sexual predators and coolies.
- From the birth of the American Republic to 1966, Asia's people represented a Yellow Peril.
## "Pros and Cons" of the Model Minority Image
Pros:
- Favorable stereotype, opens opportunities.
- Fosters optimism.
Cons:
- Masks difficulties experience by many Asian Americans
- Diminishes the willingness to provide support and opportunity to disadvantaged Asian Americans.
- Misleading views about opportunity in society.
- Psychological impacts due to the pressure to excel.
- Perpetuates negative stereotypes about other minorities.
- Denies the past and existing discriminations against Asian Americans.
- Instills the image of "perpetual foreigner".
