# Racial Integration and Assimilation

## How do you Define Identity?
- Identity is a topical issue in the contemporary study of culture with many ramifications for the study of ethnicity, class, gender, race, sexuality, and subcultures.
- Identity becomes an issue when something assumed to be fixed, coherent, and stable is displaced by the experience of doubt and uncertainty.
## Cultural Identity
- Not fixed essence or lying unchanged outside history and culture.
- Never once-and-for-all
- Always shifting and transforming.
- Stuart Hall: identity as "a production," something negotiated and imaged. It is a matter of being as well as becoming.
### Question to Consider
- In her article, Lisa Park reflects on the events leading up to her sister's suicide. 
- How did the experience of "otherness" influence Park's sister's sense of worth?
- What effect did the model minority stereotype have on the mental health of Park and her sister?

# In-class activity
- Park's sister is heavily impacted by the narrative that she has to be "normal". The biggest issue is that "normal" means to be "white" and at the same time, uphold the model minority vision. Thus in addition to having to deal with cultural, societal, and physical issues of trying to "be white" she also has the incredible pressure of having to be behaviorally and academically perfect. In the essay, "We became pathetic victims of whiteness. We permed our hair and could afford to buy trendy clothes.... But we knew we could never become 'popular,' in other words, accepted. It had something to do with our 'almond shaped' eyes but we never called it racism."
- Jonny Kim is a story of success and of incredible achievement. He became a NAVY Seal, Harvard grad, Doctor, and Astronaut, among many other things. But he had a tragic upbringing related to his father. One particular moment in his childhood was his father stumbling home drunk and brandishing a gun. Articles, newsfeeds, and communities all talk about his successes but they never addressed any of the mental turmoil, struggles, and social problems that he had to encounter on his journey to success.
- Schools should be more open to the idea of having children talk about their troubles. Teachers should be qualified to discuss and empower children instead of dismissing their troubles.