# Caste System
- Originated over 2000 years ago yet still plays a heavy influence on social structures today.
- Doesn't just put people on a pillar in society, but also shapes the way they are perceived and assumes their behavior towards society.
- British rule further solidified the caste system since it was convenient to categorize people for census.
- In order:
	- Brahmin - priests, knowledge-keepers
	- Kshatriyas - kings and warriors
	- Vaishyas - merchants
	- Shudras - peasants, workers
	- Untouchables
## What is means to be Dalit
- It means to be an outcast, an "untouchable" in India. 
- It means to be susceptible to violence, public humiliation, financial violence, and educational disproportions.
- There's still discrimination here in the US, where Dalits are still discriminated internally by other Indians.
- 52% of Dalits in the US live in fear of being "outed" and thus mistreated because of their Caste.
# Intersectionality in the Lives of Minority LGBT Members
## Relationship Violence
- Intimate partner violence towards lesbian and bisexual women when their husband/family suspect or finds out their true sexual orientation.
- This concern is further exacerbated in already marginalized communities.
- Queer women of color fall in an extremely marginalized segment.
- Violence in same-sex relationships occurs at the same rates as heterosexual relationships.
- Some assume violence happens due to gender differences. But this is inaccurate, it's not about who is "more masculine" and "more feminine".
## Family Violence
- In many countries, lesbians and bisexual women are tortured or held captive by their families. The legal systems of these countries often support the families/do not rule against violence of this nature.
## Hate Violence
- Pushes queer people back into the closet.
	- Since they fear the backlash and violence if they express their identity.
- Silences queer stories and voices.
	- Victims do not report their stories because it means they have to come out and means potentially being revictimized by law enforcement.
## Invisibility Violence
- The self-erasure of queerness by South Asians in fear of repercussions, backlash, or lack of acceptance.
	- Not just by closeted South Asians, but even ones that are already out of the closet.
	- Those who are closeted can feel forced to stay that way.
	- Ironically the most invisible type of violence.

# In-class activity
- According to Cloudhury, how does "invisibility" lead to specific risks, and where could interventions break this chain?
	- Invisibility in queer communities leads to very specific risks where members of queer communities fear being outed or coming out of the closet. This is due to the potential violence that can be inflicted by their relationships, family, and society. Most of all, their fears of being open of their identity results in a self-inflicted invisibility violence. Interventions can break this by give support to those who want to come out. Communities can be created to give them a home when they fear they will lose theirs when they come out.
- Manjeet's film uses comedy to make caste legible on U.S. campuses, and in U.S. contexts, caste is often explained through the language of race. When does this "race frame" help build solidarity, and when does it erase important differences between caste and race?
	- The race frame helps build solidarity by relating an ever-pertinent problem in the U.S. to a foreign concept. This helps people understand what it means to be discriminated through the lens of caste rather than the lens of race. However, this comparison falls apart when caste isn't about race, the color of your skin, nor by the different intricacies that are biologically apparent between races. It falls apart the most when the U.S. assumes that legislation created to combat race also combats caste.