### Pre-class writeup
1. I have generally not experienced by anti-Asian sentiment during the pandemic aside from jokes made from my friends (both Asian and non-Asian friends, making fun of each other). I owe it to living in a diverse community with a significant Asian population, and not venturing outside of my house, that I have not been exposed to discrimination and hate. But contrary to the prompt, I believe that anti-Asian sentiment has been declining in popular culture due to the prominence of many Asian TV shows and media that has proliferated throughout the U.S. such as K-Pop, the fetishization of traveling to Japan, Squid Games, and most recently, K-Pop Demon Hunters.
2. These incidents of hate and violence tells us that being "honorary whites" is simply a convenient label. It does not accurately reflect their feelings towards Asian Americans since when the situation is convenient, the script is flipped, transforming "honorary white" right into the "yellow peril" as if Asian Americans were never considered "honorary whites". To combat xenophobia at the root, we need to have education. School systems need to adopt more inclusive teachings of not just Asian culture, but of other cultures too. The current administration and its adamant rampage of defunding education is bringing an "idiocratic" future, dooming inclusivity.


# Covid and Asian Americans
## Student Presentation
- Vandalism and property damage targeted at Asian American businesses.
- 30% of Asian Americans reported they experienced hate during covid.
- Vincent Chin - beaten to death because "he represented the downturn of the auto industry in Detroit and increased imports of Japanese automobiles".
## Current Anti-Asian violence and explanation
- Nothing new about what is happening now with Asian American sin the US
- Framing anti-Asian incidents within a larger historical context:
	- COVID-19 amplified the long-standing racialization of Asian Americanism as "perpetual foreigners," producing a surge in hate crimes, vandalism, and everyday bias during early 2020.
- anti-Asian sentiment and exclusionary laws throughout American history
	- a recurrent pattern of scapegoating Asian communities during disease outbreaks (quarantines of Chinatowns around 1900; SARS framing in 2003) and in economic or national crises (Vincent Chin, post-9/11 attacks on Middle Eastern/South Asian peoples).
## What to do?
- Be educated, be informed, spread the word, hold discussions, become advocates, be honest with ourselves and be self-critical.
- Protest what we see as injustice; do it together.
- Think globally; act locally.
- Work to affect policy.
- Be politically organized.