# Representation and Racialization of Asian Americans Post 9/11
## Student Presentation
- Ono focuses on the various ways in which Asian American Studies courses require a specific level of focus.
- The Association for Asian American studies
	- Poses both benefits and consequences of the creation and teaching of Asian American studies across the US.
		- Allows consistent teachings and support across schools.
		- Subject to national scrutiny and difficulties with political events.
			- Forced to change or take action depending on prevalent issues.
		- Scrutinized and used as a catalyst for conflict between groups within the community.
- Coverage and responsibilities of the AAAS
	- "Blu's Hanging" exposed conflict within the association and unequal representation of groups within the AA diaspora.
- Key concepts:
	- Shift in racialization after 9/11.
		- Especially reshaped how South Asian, Arab, and Muslim communities were treated.
		- Racial profiling of those who seemed "Middle Eastern".
		- "Terrorist" became a racialized category that impacted AA.
	- Inclusion of Middle Eastern communities into the AAAS.
		- Ono argues that Asian studies should include Middle Eastern cultures.
	- Intersectionality and Islamophobia.
- Ono interprets 9/11 as a moment that exposed the limits of older Asian American Studies frameworks which needed to include Arab and Muslim Americans in the conversation.
	- Expansion seeks to treat Asian American as a dynamically evolving community.
- Ono states that the media is not a neutral source, it actively shapes how Americans understand race and danger.
## Muslim and Arab Americans in a Post-9/11 Era
- South Asian Muslims and Sikhs in the US are mistakenly perceived as Arabs, and have become victims of hate crimes, racial profiling, physical assaults, and even murder.
- Media has played a crucial role in the racialization.
	- Created a "Us vs. them" and "good vs. evil" mentality. Media portrays Muslims and Arabs as different and inferior, potentially violent and threatening.
	- Created negative views about an entire "people".
## Critical Approaches to Asian American Studies
- A constantly evolving field.
- Shifting traditional themes and concerns.
- Scope: Bring Arab, Muslim, and South Asian analyses into meaningful conversation with AAS - through courses, research clusters, and partnerships.
- Method: Use a transnational lens that links races, empire, religion, gender/sexuality, and war; study how U.S. policies shape diasporas and knowledge production.
- "Asian Americans, many of whom are Muslim, fall within this new category. Many Asian Americans are targets, because of physical appearance and not because of any professes self-identification as "middle Eastern, Arab, or Muslim." Thus, the racial distance between..."