# Asian Americans and American Film
- Asia is the largest continent on the planet and home to hundreds of different cultural communities.
- Hollywood created a stock "Oriental" character. The common Hollywood Asian was someone with shifty behavior, broken English, and above all slanting, narrow eyes that seemed to suggest a diabolical cunning.
- Usually marginalized into supporting roles, also often appeared as villains.
- Men were emasculated and desexualized while women were exoticized and hypersexualized in Hollywood and media.

## Student Presentation
- Whitewashing: to portray (the past) in a way that increases in prominence, relevance, or impact of white people and minimizes or misrepresents that of nonwhite people.
- Yellowface: the practice of white actors changing their appearance with makeup in order to play East Asian characters.
- *Hays Code* prohibited interracial relationships on screen.
- Hollywood created harmful stereotypes by limiting roles for Asian cast, purposely crafting them into a image:
	- Background/side characters
	- "Lotus flower", dragon lady, sexual deviant.
## Examples for stereotypes of Asian Americans
- Yellow Peril:
	- Began in the 1890s. Viewed as alien and a threat to wage earners.
- Dragon Lady:
	- Women portrayed as aggressive or opportunistic sexual beings or predatory gold diggers.
	- Alternative stereotypes that were not "aggressive" were servile Lotus Blossoms, China dolls, and Geisha dolls.
## The "Model Minority"
- Asian Americans are expected to be examples of hardworking citizens.
- Rachel is represented as educated and successful in her career.
## Family Oriented
- The movie focuses on the importance of family in Asian cultures.
- The importance of tradition and maintaining a "prideful" image.
## Asian Parenting
- Some critics argue that Nick's mother feeds into the stereotype of the "Tiger mom".
- The older women in the movie are seen to be controlling of their children's decisions.

