# Diaspora, New Asian Americans

## In-class Activity
- Adiga's story "Spicy Kitchen" deepens my understanding of Asian American identity. The story sheds light on an often forgotten intersection with regards to Indian-appearing persons. Many organizations simply forget or overlook the heritage of Nepalis and as such, often omits their voices and representation. By following Bikram we can see many of the dynamics between Nepalese and Indians and further reveal the struggles the Nepalese encounter like other new immigrants.
- Immigration status becomes a tool since Bikram is on a student visa. However, he's technically not allowed to work jobs off of campus. Thus he's not able to take on any stereotypical restaurant job, he has to perform grunt work. Additionally, he's paid below minimum wage due to his immigration status.
## Student Presentation
- "Spicy Kitchen" highlights labor exploitation, economic pressure, and cultural or societal expectations.
- Bikram carries the weight of family sacrifice to come to America.
- Fear of failure and being a disappointment by family culture.
- Pressure to uphold cultural narratives around students abroad (professional success, upward mobility, family pride).
- But he struggles to pay for college tuition and other expenses.
- Financial hardship complicates the process of belonging.
- Barriers to fair wage jobs.
- Immigrants are subjected to racial profiling and stereotyping.
- Socio-political tensions between cultures often lead to the broad generalization of negative stereotypes towards members of the targeted group.
- Bikram is exploited by their employers knowing they have limited resources and protection.
- Emphasizes power dynamics and social hierarchy.
- Reflects the long standing tradition of using foreigners for cheap labor.

## Diaspora
- The dispersion or spread of a people from their original homeland.
	- Forced expulsion of Jews.
	- The slave trade with Africans.
	- Indian diaspora as a result of the British Empire during their occupation of India.
## South Asian Diaspora
- Two thirds of SA immigrants are foreign born subjects who came after the immigration laws of 1965.
- Reflects the complex global relations but also re-envisions an American identity that is responsive to an age of migration, mobility, and transnational connections.
## Nepali Experience
- Dominant South Asian narratives often centering Indian or Pakistani experiences.
- Marginalization of Nepali and other smaller South Asian groups.
	- Unique challenges.
	- Dual invisibility within both SA diaspora and broader American society.
	- Bikram's resentment of being reduced to a "bahadur" stereotype.
