>the circulation of microbes materializes the transmission of ideas. The interactions that make us sick also constitute us as a community.

> When epidemiology turns an outbreak of communicable disease into a narrative, it makes the routes of transmission visible and helps epidemiologists anticipate and manage the course of the outbreak. In that transformational capacity, the epidemiological narrative is, like the microscope, a technology, and it is among the epistemological technologies that delineate the membership and scale of a population.

## The Eternal Fight (First video in lecture):
- Talks about cholera.
	- Its ability to spread super easily.
- Has racists undertones of the fact that it claims certain parts of South Africa are festering, unending with disease.
- This film was in 1948 and it showed Japan having disease and spreading it to the U.S.

## The Story of Cholera
- Spreads in water, most prominently the river.
- People shit in rivers, water transmitted, flies transmit, unwashed hands transmit.
- Child's dad almost dies and he learns of how to keep safe from cholera, then starts spreading the word in his village.
- The "cure" is depicted as blue, and as the child spreads the cure, color slowly populates with the sky turning blue, then everything else also becoming more saturated with color.
- Purposefully shows:
	- Exact contents and process of how to make the water safe.
	- How to properly wash hands.
	- How to create latrines.
	- How to prepare food.

> Myth - an explanatory story that is not specifically authored but emerges from a group as an expression of the origins and terms of its collective identity.

## "Every Covid 19 Commercial is Exactly the Same"
- They literally all start with some melancholic piano.
- Literally all talks about "for x amount of years" or something that the company has always been there for *people*, *family*, etc.
- Every single company talks about staying home, spreading the message to stay home but their company is available to help (take your money).
- The most repeated words are "home" and "together".
- Music speeds up in the end.